There is a quote from the Modern Warfare games, where Cpt Price and his team are hunting down Makarov.

> “The healthy human mind doesn't wake up in the morning thinking this is its last day on Earth” ~  Cpt. John Price 

This quote stuck with me - It sounds like something out of Fight Club or Mr.Robot, not an Activision game... and yet, as out of place as it was, it was poinient. However as i grow up, this has become less of me LARPing that sentiment and more of me adapting it  to how i actually feel.

> The healthy human mind doesn't wake up in the morning weighing up hes ability to trust every person he meets.
> The healthy human mind doesn't wake up in the morning planning what to do when hes job security or lives of hes family/friends is called into question.
> The healthy human mind doesn't wake up in the morning treating dying alone as a certanty rather than a possibility.

This post is not going to be nice, so I am going to warn you now.. If you are struggling with your mental health, read it on another day. I am not going to pull punches, and I am not going to glamourise how the inside of my head looks. It is not a nice place to be.

## Perpetual Burnout
I walk the lined between stressed out and burnt out every day of my life, my inability to to move away from fancing the prepapice of this trench is not work-ethic it is survival technique. There is a phrase that is thrown around often by tumblrite, that being "if you stare into the void long enough then it eventually stares back". I take this phrase to mean if you think about your place in the universe for long enough, you will realise that it you do not matter - from there on it is a slippery slope into nihalism. I first began to understand what suicide was when i was in Year 4, comming onto the concept by myself rather than being introuced to it by an adult. I tried to strangle myself behind the coat rack that evening during break, not understanding that doing that is not possible. Children should not know what suicide is at that age, much less understand it - teachers and parents should not treat that as "eddie being eddie". I look back on that with two minds, one being that i was a child dabbling in a concept i did not understand the full rammifications of... another being that I was in deep emotional pain i couldnt articulate at that age.

There is an exsstistenial dread that comes from being bored, and that is where this stems from. As a child I was too smart for my own good, I read too many books and researched subjects too mature for my age. This was not my parents fault, they couldnt of stopped me learning these things even if they tried. All of this was done in an effort to stop being bored, but this did not stop me from sitting there most of the time unsure what to do with myself. Too young to masterbate and too old to expect my parents to entertain me consatntly, i sat there brooding for hours on end - I stared into the void until that fucker began to laugh. Before I even had my first armpit hair I was begining to understand concepts of nihalism and falling into a state of depression. I could go on a rant here about my mispent youth,
